---
title: Why your LTE connection is slow at certain times?
description: Why your mobile device is slow at certain times and how to fix it.
category: How-To
tags:
- Rush
- Hour
- LTE
- 3G
- 4G
- Connection
---

Have you ever had an insomnia and stayed awake all night? or at least until 3AM in the morning trying to sleep? Then you noticed your internet connection got extremely fast and the ping got much lower? This is not a coincidence! Because at these specific times almost all people in your area are busy sleeping; That means the pressure on tower cells that delivers data to you is very low.<!--more-->

This phenomenon known as "**Rush Hour**"; which is the opposite of what i talked about, Rush Hour is when almost everybody in your area start using their phones or any device that relies on LTE technologies (cellular) at the same time which is going to create a huge pressure on the tower cells that's responsible for delivering data to each one of them including you.

Between 7PM to 9PM is when rush hour may occur and also when people come home from work or school and start to relax and browse or download content. You're going to notice especially if your area is crowded or theres few tower cells.

This problem can be annoying because it makes your internet connection very slow and limits your online activities, Here's how you fix it:

This little trick i know is not guaranteed to work, it worked for me though so you should give it a try; Use your phone/router OS settings to change the **network mode** to a lower generation... Example, I have a 4G router, if i want to change the network mode i simply go to: 

1. 192.168.1.1 or 192.168.0.1
2. Login (user:admin pass:admin)
3. Head over to "Internet" section
4. Then i change the setting!

So if you use a IPhone which uses IOS you can go to:
1. Settings
2. Mobile Data
3. Mobile Data Options
4. Voice & Data
5. Then select a network mode (3G)

Android:
1. Settings
2. Connections
3. Mobile Networks
4. Network Mode
5. Then select 3G

Downgrading to 4G from 5G or to 3G from 4G may boost your internet connection speed like it did for me. So if you ever experience a Rush Hour or you need to be prepared for a heavy tower cell pressure you know how to tackle it.